`Card` documentation (#1289)
iTwin/stratakit: apps/website/src/content/docs/components/mui/Card.md

---
title: Card
description: A Card concisely introduces a subject and its related actions.
links:
  muiDocs: https://mui.com/material-ui/react-card/
  apiReference: https://mui.com/material-ui/api/card/
---

::example{src="mui/Card.default"}

## Use cases

Make sure the **Card** is suitable for your use case. There may be other, more appropriate components available.

> | Use case                                                                          | **Card**                   | [**Tabs**](/components/tabs) | [**Dialog**](/components/dialog)  |

Author: @mayank99 I did consider table but I don't believe there is a strong enough similarity. I don't believe anyone would have a Card use case but choose Table.

| --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------- | ---------------------------- | --------------------------------- |
| Introduce a single subject, as one of a set displayed as a list or grid           |             ✅             |              ❌              |                ❌                 |
| Divide a single subject into subsections to be switched between                   |             ❌             |              ✅              |                ❌                 |
| Present additional actions for a subject that require immediate attention         |             ❌             |               ❌             |                ✅                 |

## StrataKit MUI modifications

- `Card` is rendered as an `<article>` element by default. This programmatically indicates the bounds of the **Card’s** contents.
- `CardHeader`'s `title` is rendered as an `<h2>` by default. 
- `CardActionArea` has `role="button"` removed to avoid conflicting semantics when rendered as a link.
- `CardActionArea` has been redesigned to no longer wrap the entire card content. Instead, it should be used in the **Card's** heading or title area.

> ## Examples

Author: https://github.com/iTwin/stratakit/pull/1289/commits/3bcc9d773f6f711f13b016865c5942c4e3e10a77 

Returned to this and added some wording for `Card.header`. 

It is unclear to me which variant to use when, aside from the obvious (use actions if you have actions to offer). Using the `<CardHeader>` seems to me a mostly arbitrary/stylistic rearrangement of the same content (raising the title above image area). Can we tie that to a specific use case?

It's also weird that you can use `<CardHeader>`, in a formalized way, to provide a title/subheader but a title in the center (below the image) requires you to build the same component form stuff like `<Typography>`.

@GerardasB Is it possible to associate a real menu with that `<CardHeader>` `action` prop? I was confused it doesn’t do anything at the moment.

> ## Examples

Reviewer: > @GerardasB Is it possible to associate a real menu with that <CardHeader> action prop? I was confused it doesn’t do anything at the moment.

Yes, this was done in https://github.com/iTwin/stratakit/issues/1286 (but lost while merging, I'll restore it in a sec)
Pushed [Fix merge quirks](https://github.com/iTwin/stratakit/pull/1289/commits/19ac0780f75b557b0f6b6533507910745a371f42), please double check that this doesn't revert any intended changes

---
title: Card
description: A Card concisely introduces a subject and its related actions.
links:
  muiDocs: https://mui.com/material-ui/react-card/
  apiReference: https://mui.com/material-ui/api/card/
---

::example{src="mui/Card.default" min-height="325px"}

## Use cases

Make sure the **Card** is suitable for your use case. There may be other, more appropriate components available.

> | Use case                                                                  | **Card** | [**Tabs**](/components/tabs) | [**Dialog**](/components/dialog) |

Reviewer 2: Looks like in other pages we link to the component page itself (likely for easier copy-paste)

```suggestion
| Use case                                                                  | [Card](/components/card) | [**Tabs**](/components/tabs) | [**Dialog**](/components/dialog) |
```

Author: @mayank99 Yeah, that's a good thing to stick to. Making these tables is a bit of a pain.

| ------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------- | ---------------------------- | -------------------------------- |
| Introduce a single subject, as one of a set displayed as a list or grid   | ✅       | ❌                           | ❌                               |
| Divide a single subject into subsections to be switched between           | ❌       | ✅                           | ❌                               |
| Present additional actions for a subject that require immediate attention | ❌       | ❌                           | ✅                               |

## StrataKit MUI modifications

- `Card` is rendered as an [`<article>`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Reference/Elements/article) element by default. This programmatically indicates the bounds of the **Card’s** contents.
- `CardHeader`'s `title` is rendered as an `<h2>` by default.

> - `CardActionArea` has had `role="button"` removed to avoid conflicting semantics when rendered as a link.

Reviewer 2: Bad merge, this was intentionally removed in #1332 because it's handled automatically by `ButtonBase`.

```suggestion
```

edit: resolved in [`1d4246b`](https://github.com/iTwin/stratakit/pull/1289/commits/1d4246b89693990707964faed52fe8efb7dca728)

> - `CardActionArea` has been redesigned to no longer wrap the entire card content. Instead, it should be used in the **Card's** heading or title area.

Reviewer 2: Re: the question raised in the PR description:

> I believe the title is a heading (or should be), right? This can read like title and heading are separate areas. I think this will need a little redraft.

I believe the intent was to differentiate between a Card with a manual heading vs one with a CardHeader.

Maybe it's enough to change "heading" to "header". Or just say title.

```suggestion
- `CardActionArea` has been redesigned to no longer wrap the entire card content. Instead, it should be used in the **Card's** title.
```

## Examples

### Basic

> ::example{src="mui/Card.default"}

Reviewer 2: This example is already shown at the top. Should we remove it from the top if it's shown here as well?

Author: @mayank99 Good question. I don't like the redundancy, but I think we should consistently lead with an example. So we can either...

1. Move the description for the basic example up to this section and not mention it (again) in the **Examples** section
2. Duplicate the example and add a description in the **Examples** section (as it is currently)

I'm not sure I like having the **Examples** section lacking the basic/common example. Because then it's more like **More examples**... I tend to get lost in documentation (and writing in general) when stuff is "elevated" outside its rightful category.

@FlyersPh9 @GerardasB What do you think?

Reviewer: I don't think we should embed any example twice. Let's move the default example description up (we already do that for components grouped under "StrataKit components", like https://stratakit.bentley.com/docs/components/icon/). The "an appropriate heading level" part could be extracted as a separate example (or as a point in `## Do`, but we'd need to link to a "page structure" page).

Reviewer: Alternatively, we could reword and move the default description under `Actions` example, e.g.:
```
### Actions

Add multiple actions, at the foot of the **Card**, with the [`CardActions`](https://mui.com/material-ui/api/card-actions/) component.

::example{src="mui/Card.actions"}

:::caution[Multiple actions]
Single action **Cards** are made clickable using the `CardActionArea` component.
**Cards** with multiple actions must not include `CardActionArea` as the **Card** itself cannot be actionable.
:::
```

Reviewer 2: I've moved some things around in [`c0db381..fe37b7f`](https://github.com/iTwin/stratakit/pull/1289/changes/c0db3817ea4e73a6c65524ad4eaa97eadd4f669b..fe37b7fdec692f369fbd1c2115c1df47d96d36b6).

- "Heading levels" is a static code example with no live demo.
- Removed `CardActionArea`, as it's already covered in the "Do". (Maybe this deserves repetition tho?)
- `CardActions` vs `CardActionArea` differentiated in a "caution" note.

See [preview](https://stratakit.bentley.com/1289/docs/components/card/).

Reviewer 3: What if `Examples` was renamed to something like `Additions` so it doesn't include the base design?

Reviewer 2: "Additional examples" perhaps? We should be consistent across all pages regardless of what we call it. The structure is described in the [Overview](https://stratakit.bentley.com/docs/components/overview/#component-guidance) page.

Also agreed that we shouldn't shy away from adding loose docs at the top, before any heading. There has been a need for this in the past, and we've had to bury important general information under "Examples" or "Do".

Make simple **Cards**, with single actions, clickable using the `CardActionArea` component.

> Use `slotProps` to give the `CardHeader`’s `title` [an appropriate heading level](https://www.a11yproject.com/posts/how-to-accessible-heading-structure/). The second level (`h2`) is the default.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use `slotProps` to give the [`CardHeader`](https://mui.com/material-ui/api/card-header/)’s `title` [an appropriate heading level](https://www.a11yproject.com/posts/how-to-accessible-heading-structure/). The second level (`<h2>`) is the default.
```

> 
> ```jsx
> <CardHeader
>   title="Stadium"
>   slotProps={{
>     title: {
>     render: <h3 />,
>     },
>   }}
> />

Reviewer 2: bad formatting + missing `CardActionArea`

```suggestion
<CardHeader
  title={
    <CardActionArea render={<a href="#" />} nativeButton={false}>
      Stadium
    </CardActionArea>
  }
  slotProps={{
    title: { render: <h3 /> },
  }}
/>
```

```

### Menu and metadata

::example{src="mui/Card.menu" min-height="425px"}

> Add metadata and a menu to `CardHeader` using the `subheader` and `action` props. 

Reviewer 2: link

```suggestion
Add metadata and a menu to [`CardHeader`](https://mui.com/material-ui/api/card-header/) using the `subheader` and `action` props. 
```

edit: resolved in [`c0db381`](https://github.com/iTwin/stratakit/pull/1289/commits/c0db3817ea4e73a6c65524ad4eaa97eadd4f669b)

### Actions

::example{src="mui/Card.actions"}

> Add actions, at the foot of the **Card**, with the `CardActions` component. **Cards** with `CardActions` must not include `CardActionArea`. The **Card** itself cannot be actionable.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Add actions, at the foot of the **Card**, with the [`CardActions`](https://mui.com/material-ui/api/card-actions/) component. **Cards** with `CardActions` must not include `CardActionArea`. The **Card** itself cannot be actionable.
```

## ✅ Do

- Choose [an appropriate heading level](https://www.a11yproject.com/posts/how-to-accessible-heading-structure/) for the `CardHeader` title.
- Organize multiple **Cards** into an unordered list, where each list item contains a single **Card**.
- Use `CardActionArea` if the entire card should be clickable.
- Use `CardActions` when the card has supplementary actions.

## 🚫 Don't

- Don’t use a **Card** to group unrelated content or actions.
- Don’t use **Card** just to highlight some content belonging to a larger subject. 

> - Don’t wrap the entire contents of the **Card** in a `CardActionArea`. Typically, it should only contain `CardHeader`.

Reviewer 2: This guidance is wrong. `CardActionArea` should not wrap `CardHeader`.

```suggestion
- Don’t wrap the entire contents of the **Card** in a `CardActionArea`. Typically, it should be passed into the `CardHeader`'s `title`.
```

## StrataKit MUI modifications

- `Card` is rendered as an [`<article>`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Reference/Elements/article) element by default. This programmatically indicates the bounds of the **Card’s** contents.
- `CardHeader`'s `title` is rendered as an `<h2>` by default.
- `CardActionArea` has been redesigned to no longer wrap the entire card content. Instead, it should be used in the **Card's** title.

## Examples

### Basic

::example{src="mui/Card.default"}

Make simple **Cards**, with single actions, clickable using the `CardActionArea` component.

Use `slotProps` to give the [`CardHeader`](https://mui.com/material-ui/api/card-header/)’s `title` [an appropriate heading level](https://www.a11yproject.com/posts/how-to-accessible-heading-structure/). The second level (`<h2>`) is the default.

```jsx
<CardHeader
  title={
    <CardActionArea render={<a href="#" />} nativeButton={false}>
      Stadium
    </CardActionArea>
  }
  slotProps={{
    title: { render: <h3 /> },
  }}
/>
```

### Menu and metadata

::example{src="mui/Card.menu" min-height="425px"}

> Add metadata and a menu to `CardHeader` using the `subheader` and `action` props.

Reviewer: nit for consistency (let's keep the description above the example):

```suggestion
### Menu and metadata

Add metadata and a menu to `CardHeader` using the `subheader` and `action` props.

::example{src="mui/Card.menu" min-height="425px"}

```

Reviewer 2: resolved in [`c0db381`](https://github.com/iTwin/stratakit/pull/1289/commits/c0db3817ea4e73a6c65524ad4eaa97eadd4f669b) together with https://github.com/iTwin/stratakit/pull/1289#discussion_r3118029493.

---
title: Card
description: A Card concisely introduces a subject and its related actions.
links:
  muiDocs: https://mui.com/material-ui/react-card/
  apiReference: https://mui.com/material-ui/api/card/
---

::example{src="mui/Card.default" min-height="325px"}

Make simple **Cards** with clickable by wrapping the `title` in `<CardActionArea>`:

```jsx
<CardHeader
	title={
		<CardActionArea 
			render={<a href="/path/to/permalink" />} 
			nativeButton={false}
		>
			Stadium
		</CardActionArea>
	}
/>
```

> For different configurations, see [**Examples**](#examples).

Reviewer: Source is available via the embedded example.

```suggestion
Make simple **Cards** clickable by wrapping the title in [`CardActionArea`](https://mui.com/material-ui/api/card-action-area/).
```

Reviewer 2: Addressed: [`a694d21`](https://github.com/iTwin/stratakit/pull/1289/commits/a694d2180e7db59d97c363401d4d77af9b88e64d).

| Present additional actions for a subject that require immediate attention | ❌                       | ❌                       | ✅                           |

## StrataKit MUI modifications

- `Card` is rendered as an [`<article>`](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Reference/Elements/article) element by default. This programmatically indicates the bounds of the **Card’s** contents.
- `CardHeader`'s `title` is rendered as an `<h2>` by default.
- `CardActionArea` has been redesigned to no longer wrap the entire card content. Instead, it should be used in the **Card's** title.

## Examples

### Actions

::example{src="mui/Card.actions"}

Add multiple actions, at the foot of the **Card**, with the [`CardActions`](https://mui.com/material-ui/api/card-actions/) component.

:::caution
**Cards** with `CardActions` must not include `CardActionArea`, which is better suited when the entire **Card** is actionable.
:::

### Menu and metadata

::example{src="mui/Card.menu" min-height="325px"}

Add metadata and a [**Menu**](/components/menu) to [`CardHeader`](https://mui.com/material-ui/api/card-header/) using the `subheader` and `action` props.

### Heading levels

> Use `slotProps` to give the [`CardHeader`](https://mui.com/material-ui/api/card-header/)’s `title` [an appropriate heading level](https://www.a11yproject.com/posts/how-to-accessible-heading-structure/). The second level (`<h2>`) is the default.

Reviewer: Not sure if we want to have code-only examples w/o embedding a live example

Reviewer 2: Why not?

Reviewer: Because a live example is better than inline example in every way: 
- Allows to view the "output"
- Allows to view the code
- Code is less prone to errors/typos
- Code is less prone to upstream/API changes

The only missing feature is marking a specific line.

Reviewer: Anecdotal example: https://github.com/iTwin/stratakit/blob/8569a2c5c3751928cb3dc7c3e14c3cff9daed58d/apps/website/src/content/docs/components/AccordionItem.md?plain=1#L83

Reviewer 2: Normally I'd agree with all of that, but in this case most of the code would be the exact same as what has already been shown in the other examples. The whole point of this example is to pinpoint the exact place where the heading level needs to be changed. Everything else would be a distraction (and require additional navigation to view source).

Reviewer: I'm sure we could solve this better in the future, e.g. create a live example (available via examples page), but display source (with highlighting) in the component page.
